[Music]
welcome to this hands-on lesson in this
lesson we're going to go into aws
secrets manager have a look at the
console create a secret and then we're
going to go to the command line as well
and see how we can work with secrets
manager using the cli so i'm on the
secrets manager console here let's click
on store a new secret
and straight away we have a few
decisions to make so what's the secret
type is it going to be credentials for
an rds database document tb a redshift
cluster or some other type of database
or any other type of secret like an api
key and an oar token and so on
now if you do choose the rds database
you do actually need to have a database
and we don't have one so what we're
going to do is choose other type of
secret
and we're simply going to create our
secret as a key value pair
so for example
maybe it's a password for our
administrative account so i'm going to
put in admin and then i'm just going to
say my
password now as you can see it's going
to use an encryption key and by default
it's going to use an aws manage key so
you know that because it says aws slash
and then secrets manager
so you can choose other keys if you want
to as long as secrets manager does have
the permissions to use that key i'm
going to use the default key here
and click on next
just give it a name i'm just going to
call this my credentials
you can then optionally add tags
you can edit the resource permissions
and you can choose to replicate your
secret if you want to as well
we'll click on next and this is where we
have the configuration for automatic
rotation so remember secrets manager
does do automatic rotation but it's only
going to work out of the box for certain
databases
so if i enable automatic rotation here
for my custom secret
i'm going to need to choose a lambda
rotation function and of course i don't
have one i would need to write my own
lambda code that rotates the secret
so i'm just going to disable rotation
click on next
scroll down
and we can see some sample code here for
using our secret in an application and
i'm just going to choose store and it's
as simple as that we now have our secret
stored in aws secrets manager
now if we come in here we can see some
information the encryption key that's
being used the name it has its own arn
and we can retrieve the secret value if
we wish to as well
so of course you've got to be careful
who has permissions to view this
information
now that's it for the console what i
want to do now is go to the command line
and we're going to see how we can work
with the command line now you'll find
this file in the course downloads
obviously it's in the code directory aws
sequence manager and it's called secrets
manager cli commands and these are the
commands that we're going to use
so i'm simply going to copy the command
one by one to my clipboard and on a
command line here i'm going to type in
aws secrets manager list secrets
and of course we did create a secret
before so we can see the arn the name of
that secret the last change date access
date and some more information so let's
quit out of there and go and see what
the next command is
so the next command is to actually
create a secret so we're going to run
aws secrets manager create secret we
give it a name it's going to be called
dev db secret and then we can give it a
description and then the actual secret
string so this is the actual secret
we're trying to store
so i'm going to copy all of this to my
clipboard
and back on the command line
that's
hit enter and that should have created
the secret for us
so now if i go back up to my previous
command to list secrets i can now see
that i have two so i have my credentials
and dev db secret now what if i actually
want to retrieve the secret value from
the command line well i can do that with
the secrets manager get secret value
command and again we just need to
identify the secret by id which is
actually the name of the secret so back
in the command line let's put that in
and it actually retrieves the secret
string and we can see it in plain text
here on the screen another command you
can use is describe secret so let's copy
this to our clipboards
paste that one in and hit enter
now what you'll notice is this provides
quite a bit of information but it
doesn't actually retrieve the secret
value so this is useful when you want to
know information about the secret but
not the actual secret itself
the next command is to update the secret
so we can run this command and what's
going to happen is it's going to change
the secret value that's stored so if you
needed to rotate your secret this is a
way that you could do that using the cli
of course you'd be able to use the api
and there'll be a very similar option
for how you can update the secret using
the api that you could then put into a
lambda function code to actually perform
that for you
so here we're running update secret we
give it the secret id the name of the
secret and then the new secret string
so i've pasted that onto my screen
that has now applied the new secret so
let's run the get secret value command
again
and we should now see that we have the
new secret string returned
so that's it for this lesson i just
wanted to show you how to use secrets
manager from the cli of course in many
instances you'll be using the api in
code to actually work with secrets
manager now the last thing i'm going to
do here is delete my secrets the first
one is the dev db secret so i'm going to
copy this command to my clipboard
paste that in and that will be deleted
and then i'm simply going to go back and
delete my credentials as well
and that's both of my secrets deleted
so i hope that was useful i will see you
in the next lesson
[Music]